FAQs for Joint Entrance Examination (Main) – 2025
1
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS (FAQs) for JEE (Main) - 2025
S. No. Parameters JEE (Main) – 2025
1 What is the website for the
Online Application Form,
Helpline Number and email
ID for JEE (Main) – 2025?
Website : https://jeemain.nta.nic.in/
The Helpline No.- 011-40759000
E-mail: jeemain@nta.ac.in
2. How to Register for JEE
(Main) – 2025?
Instructions to apply online for JEE (Main)-2025 are
available in the Information Bulletin available on NTA
website under the heading Important Information at
Glance.
For more details please go through the Information
Bulletin Appendix – X (Replica of Application Form)
3. Choice of Cities The Choice of exam cities will be displayed to the
candidates based on the permanent and present address
filled during registration. Four choices of cities are given
to the candidates.
Foreign Centres. Centre’s outside India will only be
established in cities where there is reasonably large
number of Candidate count.
In view of the above, for such candidates appearing from
abroad, NTA has decided to provide an option of filling of
choice of cities in any nearby country with an examination
Centre or any city within India as per their choice.
Note- Though every effort will be made to allot a
Centre in one of the cities selected by the candidate, the
NTA reserves the right to allot a Centre in a city other
than the candidate’s choice.
(In this regard refer Para 5.1 of Information Bulletin,
available on NTA official website)
4. AADHAR Number AADHAR authentication will be done for the candidates
and it will be an optional field. However, candidates are
advised to update their Aadhaar Card as a proof of identity
with recent details for verification at the Exam Centre.
(In this regard refer Public Notice dated 06 November
2024)
5. Eligibility and certificates
required by PwBD/PwD
Candidates
Candidates are advised to follow the instructions of RPwD
Act, 2016 and instructions/ guidelines as notified in
Ministry of Social Justice & Empowerment, Govt. of
India, Office Memorandum No. F. No. 34- 02/2015-DD-
III dated 29 August 2018 for PwBD and Memorandum No
F. No. 29- 6/2019-DD-III dated 10 August 2022 for PwD.

-- 1 of 6 --

FAQs for Joint Entrance Examination (Main) – 2025
2
(In this regard also refer Public Notice dated
25th October 2024 and Para 4.2 of Information Bulletin
available on NTA official website)
6. Use of Scribe For availing the scribe facility, the candidates are advised
to read the guidelines given in the Chapter 4 of
Information Bulletin and public notice dated 25 Oct 2024.
Note: - The candidates are advised to fill all details in
the certificate of undertaking as specified in Appendix
IV & VI of Information Bulletin and the space
provided for Roll Number, name of the Centre, name
of District and State should be left as blank for filling
at the Examination Centre.
(In this regard also refer Public Notice dated
25th October 2024 and Para 4.2.4 of Information
Bulletin available on NTA official website)
7. Medium of the
examination.
Drawing from the National Education Policy (NEP),
the JEE (Main) - 2025 is being conducted in English,
Hindi, Assamese, Bengali, Gujarati, Kannada,
Malayalam, Marathi, Odia, Punjabi, Tamil, Telugu, and
Urdu.
(In this regard also refer Para 2.2 of Information
Bulletin available on NTA official website)
8. Uploading of the Category
Certificate.
No, Category certificate is not to be uploaded by the
candidate in the online Application Form of JEE (Main) –
2025. Instead of the uploading certificate, candidate has to
fill following details:
1. Certificate Number.
2. Date of issue.
3. Issuing authority.
In case the category certificate is not available and
candidate has applied for the same, the acknowledgement/
receipt Number, date of application and issuing authority
details be filled in the online application form. (Candidate
is not guaranteed a seat based on Acknowledgement/
Receipt Number. The Candidate is required to provide the
certificate at the time of document verification)
However, the documents including the category certificate
will be verified by the Counselling/ Admitting Institutions
at a later date.

-- 2 of 6 --

FAQs for Joint Entrance Examination (Main) – 2025
3
9. When will the JEE (Main)-
2025 Examination be
conducted?
The tentative dates of examinations are as follows:
Session 1: Between 22 January and 31 January 2025
Session 2: Between 01 April and 08 April 2025.
(The detailed information is given in Information
Bulletin at important information and dates at a
glance)
10. Are Candidates required to
send/submit any document(s)
including the Confirmation
Page to NTA through Post/
Fax/ By Hand?
No. Candidates are not required to send/submit any
document(s) including the Confirmation Page to NTA
through Post/Fax/WhatsApp/Email/by Hand.
11. If any candidate did not
apply for Session 1, can
he/she apply for Session
2?
Yes, if a candidate has missed filling up the Application
Form for the January session, he/she can fill up the
Application Form for the April session at the time of
opening of the portal for that session.
12. Can a center be allotted by the
NTA manually?
No.
13. The dates of Examination of
JEE (Main) - 2025 clashes
with any other National / State
level examination.
If such a clash occurs, then NTA will not change the
allotted date of examination.
14. How can I select the Date and
Slot of Examination of JEE
(Main) - 2025?
The date/shift/slot of examination is allotted by computer
randomly which is required for the normalization process.
Hence the choice of date and shift/slot cannot be selected
by the candidate himself/herself.
15. In case, the Candidate has
uploaded a Blue Signature
instead of a Black Signature
in the application form of JEE
(Main)-2025. Is it okay?
Yes, it is okay. Your Application Form will not be rejected
merely for this mistake.
16. Can the Candidate correct/
change his/her particulars
including the City of Exam
Centre in the Online
Application?
As per the Instructions given to the candidates for filling
up their Online Application Form, they are supposed to fill
up their particulars carefully and NTA is not responsible
for any mistake committed by the candidates in this
regard. A one-time correction facility will be provided in
the selected fields only. In this regard a public notice
will be issued by the NTA.
17. Can anyone cancel the
application submitted for JEE
(Main)-2025?
Online Application forms once submitted successfully
cannot be cancelled/ withdrawn.

-- 3 of 6 --

FAQs for Joint Entrance Examination (Main) – 2025
4
18. If one does not get an Admit
Card, whom should be
contacted?
The Candidates may please note that Admit Cards will not
be sent by post. The candidate has to download the Admit
Card from the NTA website after a public notice regarding
the downloading of admit card is displayed. For any
assistance, candidates can call the NTA Helpline
numbers: 011 40759000 or 011 69227700 or write to NTA
at: jeemain@nta.ac.in
19. Can a candidate change the
examination center after the
allotment of roll number?
The city of the allotted Examination Centre cannot be
changed, in any case.
Note: The choice of exam cities displayed to the candidates will
be based on the permanent and correspondence addresses filled
during the Online Application Form of JEE (Main) – 2025.
20. What do the candidates need
to bring at the exam center?
Please refer Para 5.4 of Information Bulletin for
details
21. Will any candidate be able to
leave early if he finishes the
test before the allocated test
time?
No, the candidate will not be allowed to leave the
Examination Centre before the test concludes.
22. How many question papers
are in JEE (Main) – 2025?
In this regard refer Para 2.4 of Information Bulletin
available on NTA official website.
23. Is there any Negative Marking
in the JEE (Main)- 2025?
Section A will be of Multiple-Choice Questions (MCQs)
and Section B will contain Questions whose answers are
to be filled in as a numerical value. All questions of both
sections are mandatory to attempt. There will be negative
marking for both Section A and Section B.
(In this regard also refer Para 2.4 of Information
Bulletin available on NTA official website)
24. What is the duration of the
examination for those
candidates who wish to
appear for both B. Arch as
well as B. Planning?
The duration of the examination is 03:30 hrs. for those
candidates who wish to appear for B. Arch and B.
Planning.
(In this regard also refer Para 2.5 of Information
Bulletin available on NTA official website)
25. What is the
duration/timing/shift of JEE
(Main) - 2025 Session 1?
Duration, Shift, and timing of examination are available at
Important dates (IMPORTANT INFORMATION AT A
GLANCE) in the Information Bulletin of JEE (Main) -
2025.
26. Are the candidates required to
select either five or six
subjects of 12th
standard?
Candidates are required to select only Five (5) subjects.
The Mandatory subjects for the JEE (Main) – 2025 are
Physics, Chemistry and Mathematics.

-- 4 of 6 --

FAQs for Joint Entrance Examination (Main) – 2025
5
27. Candidate are minor and do
not have their own category
certificate. Can they utilize
the category certificate of
their parents or siblings?
Candidates have to provide the details of the Category
Certificate as required in Application form.
They cannot utilize the category certificate of their
siblings.
In case the category certificate is not available and
candidate has applied for the same, the acknowledgement/
receipt Number, date of application and issuing authority
be filled in the online application form. (Candidate is not
guaranteed a seat based on Acknowledgement/ Receipt
Number. The Candidate is required to provide the
certificate at the time of document verification)
28. Candidates who are giving
improvement/ re-appearing in
one or more subjects to
enhance scores. In such case
which option to be chosen
between passed or appearing?
Option to be chosen is ‘Passed’
29. What is the minimum
eligibility criteria/
qualification/age limit for
appearing in JEE (Main) -
2025?
In this regard refer Chapter 3 of Information Bulletin.
30. What will be the pattern of
examinations?
For detailed information candidates are advised to
read Para 2.4 of Chapter 2 of Information Bulletin
carefully
31. What is the State code of
eligibility?
Please refer to Para 3.4 of the Information Bulletin of
JEE (Main)-2025 which is available at the NTA
website: jeemain.nta.nic.in
32. In the case of foreign national
candidates (OCI/PIO), what
will be the pin code in the
address section?
Such candidates are required to put 000000 in the field of
Pin Code.
33. Whether the application fee
excludes the Common
Service charge?
No, the application fee doesn’t include the common
service charge, which has to be paid by Candidate.
(For more details refer Appendix I of Information
Bulletin)
34. How can one remit a fee for
JEE (Main) - 2025?
The examination fee for JEE (Main) - 2025 can be
remitted in the following manner:
 Through any Debit / Credit / UPI Card using SBI /
Canara / HDFC / ICICI online gateway payment
facility/ Net Banking.

-- 5 of 6 --

FAQs for Joint Entrance Examination (Main) – 2025
6
(For more details refer Appendix I of Information
Bulletin)
35. If any candidate faces any
problem in the remittance of
fee due to a failed transaction,
what can he/she do?
If the payment status of an online transaction (by
credit/debit card) is not communicated by the payment
gateway in real time, then fee payment is not completed
and the candidate will not be able to download the
confirmation page. In this case, the candidate is required
to pay the fee again through online mode and download
the confirmation page. The amount due to the failed
transaction of credit/debit card will be refunded after the
declaration of the final result of JEE (Main) – 2025.
(The detailed information is given in Information
Bulletin at important information and dates at a
glance)

-- 6 of 6 --